So with a lot of my projects, I use environment variables
to configure things like API endpoints,
maybe ports that certain things connect to,
and sometimes, also certain things that are shown,
and I just want to show you, in a more practical example,
in this conference schedule thing, how we can use
environment variables to configure, or get the environment
variables into our React App, so what I'm gonna do
is say if we have show speakers that's true,
I'm gonna show you the speakers, and it's only gonna be true
during development, and it's gonna be false when
it's in production, so that we can hide the speakers
until the day of the event.
So I have this new, very mini React component,
called Speaker, it receives the speaker's name
and their Twitter handle, and if we have the speaker's
name, then we parse back a p tag, otherwise it's null,
and then we need to add it down into our session,
so I'm just gonna do Speaker, and I'm gonna add in;
I'm just gonna parse in all the props that I have left over
that I have not used;
I'm just gonna do props, okay?
And I've updated, you can see it's already kind of jumped
in, there, let's grab another one, just have a look,
so you can see it's already updated, and we can see,
the other thing I've done, is I've updated
the data structure that I'm working from,
just so you can see, it's returning the speaker names
and the Twitter handles.
So that's now visible, and that's great for development,
but no good for production; we don't want that to go live,
so we're gonna say process.env.SHOWSPEAKER and,
there we go, nope, need to to close that,
okay, so hidden, cool, so we hit refresh, still hidden,
so next task, now, is to set this environment variable
to true, okay, so let's go ahead and just drop that
into the package, so do equals one, cool,
and we're gonna have to restart this server manually,
because that was right at the top layer.
And let's have a look, just waiting for
the server to restart,
right, so for the sharp eyed ones of you, you might have
spotted Blaine's name appeared and then disappeared,
and in fact, actually, there's a warning here,
to say there was a difference between what was hydrated,
and actually what was rendered in client side,
expected something else to be there.
And if I had to say, with JavaScript, hit refresh;
we've got the speaker's name, but if I put
JavaScript back in,
we can see the name vanishes, and the reason for that,
is because in the client side, we don't have this value,
and that's where we have to break open the shell
of zero config, like true zero config, and add a little bit
of webpack configuration, now, the upshot of this,
is actually what we're doing, is we're taking the existing
webpack configuration that Next provide us,
and we're adding an extra piece, on top of that,
so I'm gonna create a file called next.config.js,
so next.config.js, and this is where our customizations
live, and we're gonna do module.exports equals,
and we have this webpack property, which takes a config.
Blah, I can't spell; config and returns the config,
okay, and we're gonna modify the config, here,
by pushing plugins, push and we're gonna parse in a new
webpack plugin, here, so I'm just gonna do const webpack
equals require webpack, okay, and webpack comes as part
of Next, so we can just require it,
and we're gonna do new webpack.Env, environment plugin,
and here, we can parse in, or we can actually parse in
the string, I think; SHOW SPEAKERS, I believe that's valid;
returning the conflict back, just need to stop
and start our server.
Oh, that's singular, just gonna restart that again,
in fact, actually, it caught, you can see there's a warning,
there, anyway, so let's hit refresh, okay, cool;
it's staying, there, let's just check,
let's go home, go to Lessons; cool, that looks like
it is working, so now, I'm just gonna upgrade this,
just a little bit more; what I've got is two files
in my root directory, I got env and env development.
Dot env is the one that will go into production,
where Speakers are set to zero, and env development
is the one that has Speakers equal to one,
I'm gonna go off to my package file; get rid of this,
okay, and I'm gonna include a new module,
require at remy env, envy, okay, this is a module
that I've written, that kind of extracts some of the logic
that's in Create React App, that automatically works out
which environment env file to load,
so it goes through a whole cycle of different env files.
So npm envy, it lists the order in which it does things,
and I'm finding I'm using it in almost every project
I use, these days, so you can see, the full order,
down here, so it looks for the .env by default,
otherwise, it will change the order and take priority
for .local files and then .development files and so on,
so what that means, is this will load in the right
environment variable into show speakers,
and if we run it in production, the idea is npm run build.
If we run it in production, then the show speaker
should be zero,
but let's check, shall we?
Looking good, cool,
and there we go, and that is because when it runs the start
script, we use NODE EV equals production,
and that is loading node env drives, which environment file
is loaded, and let's just have a quick look over here,
like I said, two environment files, this one is hiding
the speakers, and this one shows speakers,
so there we go; that was the extent of our webpack config
that we need to do.
And we can do more inside of this, and we can configure
webpack any way we want to, but this is how I get
environment variables in, and if you wanted,
you could actually drop in the whole of process.env;
I think, maybe it makes sense, sometimes,
to be a bit specific about what you're parsing in,
but it depends on your gradual needs, so that is how
to get your environment variables, both into your server
side, and to your client side.